TODO.md, before:

Calendar:
2019-01-5
Extracting Trial Balance From Ledger P1

2019-01-12
Extracting Trial Balance From Ledger P2

2019-01-19
Extracting Trial Balance From Ledger P3

2019-01-26

2019-02-02
Getting Ending Inventory Under FIFO - Part 1

2019-02-09
Getting Ending Inventory Under FIFO - Part 2

2019-02-16

2019-02-23
Getting Ending Inventory Under FIFO - Part 3


2019-03-02

2019-03-09
Detecting Unrecorded Sales

2019-03-16

2019-03-23
Summarizing Time Logs for Payroll

2019-03-30

2019-04-06
Cleaning Contacts List for Import to Xero

2019-04-13

2019-04-20
Automating Transaction Import from Sales Journal

2019-04-27

2019-05-04
Audit Procedures: Gap Detection with Power Query

2019-05-11

2019-05-18
Audit Procedures: Duplicate Detection with Power Query

2019-05-25

2019-06-01
Audit Procedures: Fraud Detection with Power Query

2019-09-22
Creating a Simple Accounting System with Excel and Power Query - Part 1

2019-09-29
Creating a Simple Accounting System with Excel and Power Query - Part 2

2019-10-06
Creating a Simple Accounting System with Excel and Power Query - Part 3

2019-10-13
Power Query Syntax Highlighting

2019-10-20
Creating a Simple Accounting System with Excel and Power Query - Part 4

2019-10-27
Estimating Allowance for Bad Debts

2019-11-03
Sales Trend Analysis

2019-11-10
Moving Average Forecasting Sales

2019-11-17
Detecting Wrongly Posted Payroll Items - using the Payroll Summarizer

2019-11-24
Cross Join to Repeat a Weekly Budget


Consolidating Files in a Folder
Consolidating Files using a Loop
Searching a List of Strings within another String
Remove Duplicates from a List in a Single Cell


Hello World!
Check out the Part 3 of the series on creating an accounting system in Excel and PowerQuery.

Stay Querious. Happy coding!

https://powerqueryforaccountants.com/post/creating-a-simple-accounting-system-with-excel-and-power-query-p3/

#powerquery #accounting #powerqueryforaccountants


Coding standards
**bold** - Headings, commands, and query names. Terms that are enumerated for the first time
`code` - code blocks

Commit message:

Added more topics to put in blog

TODO.md, after:

Calendar:
2019-01-5
Extracting Trial Balance From Ledger P1

2019-01-12
Extracting Trial Balance From Ledger P2

2019-01-19
Extracting Trial Balance From Ledger P3

2019-01-26

2019-02-02
Getting Ending Inventory Under FIFO - Part 1

2019-02-09
Getting Ending Inventory Under FIFO - Part 2

2019-02-16

2019-02-23
Getting Ending Inventory Under FIFO - Part 3


2019-03-02

2019-03-09
Detecting Unrecorded Sales

2019-03-16

2019-03-23
Summarizing Time Logs for Payroll

2019-03-30

2019-04-06
Cleaning Contacts List for Import to Xero

2019-04-13

2019-04-20
Automating Transaction Import from Sales Journal

2019-04-27

2019-05-04
Audit Procedures: Gap Detection with Power Query

2019-05-11

2019-05-18
Audit Procedures: Duplicate Detection with Power Query

2019-05-25

2019-06-01
Audit Procedures: Fraud Detection with Power Query

2019-09-22
Creating a Simple Accounting System with Excel and Power Query - Part 1

2019-09-29
Creating a Simple Accounting System with Excel and Power Query - Part 2

2019-10-06
Creating a Simple Accounting System with Excel and Power Query - Part 3

2019-10-13
Power Query Syntax Highlighting

2019-10-20
Creating a Simple Accounting System with Excel and Power Query - Part 4

2019-10-27
Estimating Allowance for Bad Debts

2019-11-03
Sales Trend Analysis

2019-11-10
Moving Average Forecasting Sales

2019-11-17
Detecting Wrongly Posted Payroll Items - using the Payroll Summarizer

2019-11-24
Cross Join to Repeat a Weekly Budget


Consolidating Files in a Folder
Consolidating Files using a Loop
Searching a List of Strings within another String
Remove Duplicates from a List in a Single Cell


Add to marketing - twitter
More from PQ tips
Disable auto detect data type
View monospaced - to detect wrong length item
Rename steps in a query
Determining query dependencies
Reference a query - right-click reference
Duplicate a query - delete steps until end
Cross join - add a custom column
Copy and paste queries to new workbook
Anti-join - two criteria
Merge queries - digit to nondigit - merge queries as new
Filtering - one way vs dynamic
Sorting - edit the code or sort consecutively
Pass parameter - one parameter at a time - using drill down
Prevent table resizing - external data properties
Transformation table - in the Fuzzy merge - transformation table should have text data type
Filter files when importing from a folder - apply the filter to the Source step
Two types of merges - be careful on the order of selection - also either thru (1) Add column tab or (2) Right-click merge
Split column - by delimiter ", "


Hello World!
Check out the Part 3 of the series on creating an accounting system in Excel and PowerQuery.

Stay Querious. Happy coding!

https://powerqueryforaccountants.com/post/creating-a-simple-accounting-system-with-excel-and-power-query-p3/

#powerquery #accounting #powerqueryforaccountants


Coding standards
**bold** - Headings, commands, and query names. Terms that are enumerated for the first time
`code` - code blocks
